[ Silence ]
>> [Background Music] I think
many people today don't know
what to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep on listening
to [inaudible] what
really happened.
>> It felt like something
was watching me.
>>[Background sounds] We weren't
given all the information.
We weren't given all the story.
[ Noises ]
>> And now the host of the
nationally syndicated Coast
to Coast [background
applause] AM's Gaiam TV,
brings you "Beyond
Belief" with George Noory.
[ Applause ]
>> George Noory: Well, hi.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief".
You know one of my all-time
favorite sitcoms  Taxi  was one
of the best, one
of the funniest.
Just to get a little
recall from you watch this.
>> Alex please forgive me.
Oh, I won't believe
you won't forgive me.
I'll die if you won't
forgive me [laughter].
Oh Alex you're maybe
my best friend.
[ Music ]
[ Noises ]
>> I forgive you.
>> [Background Music] Oh.
[ Music ]
>> George Noory: Oh, and we've
got a special treat for you
on today's "Beyond Belief".
As a matter of fact
Elaine Nardo, that person,
the real Marilu Henner
with us [applause].
Noted author/actress.
[Applause] Let's
hear it for her.
[ Applause ]
>> Marilu Henner: Hi [applause].
>> George Noory: How are you?
>> Marilu Henner: I'm so old.
Good.
>> George Noory: Good
to have you with us.
Good to see you.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh,
thank you so much.
Thank you for inviting -- this
is my first time in Boulder.
>> George Noory: Must have had
such a great time
doing that show.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh my gosh.
Well first of all it was,
you know, six guys and me.
So that was always a lot of fun.
I used to fall asleep at
night planning my outfit
for the next day.
[Laughter] You know, because I
just loved those guys so much.
And I was the only female
because our producers,
our executive producers
Jim Brooks, Stan Daniels
and Edwin Berger, [inaudible]
Davis; they had just come
from the Mary Tyler Moore
Show, and Rhoda, and Phyllis
and all those shows, and they
wanted to write for guys.
But they knew they had
to have one female.
So I became the girl and it
was really -- it was just --
it was the first -- it was such
a poignant time in my life too
because I was auditioning
for it,
my mother was actually suffering
from Rheumatoid Arthritis
and she passed away a few
weeks before I got  Taxi .
Like just -- and
I always felt...
>> George Noory: She
would have loved that.
>> Marilu Henner: She --
I think she arranged it.
I think she was the reason I
ended -- oh I'm going to cry --
she was the reason
I got that show.
Because she knew how
important that was to me
and she kept saying -- because
I was visiting her in Chicago
and she kept saying, you
know, go back and you're going
to get this, you're going to
get this and then I got it,
but it was such an
extraordinary experience
and we're all still
friends today.
And the -- we did
it for five years
and the writing was so good.
They wrote really
rich, vivid characters
and then they cast actors that
fit those roles perfectly.
So it's still my favorite
theatrical experience
that I've ever done.
>> George Noory: We've
got a surprise for you.
Danny DeVito is standing
right next to you [laughter].
Danny, how are you?
>> Marilu Henner: I thought
for a second you were
serious [laughter].
>> George Noory: He's a riot.
>> Marilu Henner:
He is so funny.
You know, everybody
always asks me --
it's funny when I was on  Taxi
and for years it was always,
"What's Danny DeVito like?"
Then I did a show
called  Evening Shade
with Burt Reynolds.
Then they would say,
"Is Burt a good kisser?"
That was always the question.
And now I get, "Is that
really Donald Trump's hair?"
[Laughter] You know?
So the guys in my
life always get the --
I always get the
questions about them.
But Danny was kind
of the confidant.
He was sort of the Yoda of the
group, and he was so delicious
as that character that he
actually was signed up for seven
out of 13 episodes, but as
soon as he left that cage
in the very first episode
and you got to see him walk
down the steps and there
he was, a star was born.
>> George Noory:
He had to be there.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh yeah.
>> George Noory: Had to be.
>> Marilu Henner: He --
and he ended up, you know,
having ownership in the
show and everything else.
So he was great.
>> George Noory: How
did you get the part?
How did that all happen for you?
>> Marilu Henner: Well
it was really interesting
because I had a contract with
CBS at the time and they -- I --
which was --  Taxi  was on ABC.
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner: So CBS
offered me this other series
and I happened to be away.
Kind of like those weird -- I
mean there's something bigger
than all of us because
somehow the fates ended
up where I couldn't
honor my contract,
and then I finally did,
but I did this other show.
Anyway, it's too long
a story to go into.
But they wanted a
33-year-old Italian New Yorker.
At the time I was 25.
They wanted somebody who could
have a 16-year-old daughter.
I couldn't have one at 25.
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner:
But they liked me
so they kept bringing me
back and bringing me back.
And they said, "Well, she's got
the right qualities and stuff."
That kind of thing.
And then this other
show wanted me
so I think the competition made
them say, "Okay, she's Elaine."
So that's how I got the part.
Through the casting
director, Joel Thurm.
>> George Noory: Well
it's been a great sitcom.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh fantastic.
>> George Noory: And it
still -- it lives forever.
>> Marilu Henner: It does.
>> George Noory:
Just the clips --
we're going to look at another
one in just a second Marilu.
It was just refreshing.
And I remember when I
first met you at one
of these speaking
engagements that I do so often.
You just have so much
magnetism about you.
>> Marilu Henner: Thank you.
>> George Noory: Which is
one of the things we're going
to talk about, this ability
that you've been able
to have during your
entire career,
which truly is remarkable.
But you've made -- you
have led a blessed life.
>> Marilu Henner: I have.
>> George Noory: Haven't you?
>> Marilu Henner: I
am very, very lucky
and I came from a great family.
Two wonderful parents that
I lost very young in life.
But I always felt that they were
out there protecting me and sort
of making things kind
of happen, you know.
A few weeks after my
father passed away I was 17,
I was a senior in high school,
and I got four scholarships
to go to the University
of Chicago.
So I always felt like that
was what was important to him
and he made that happen.
And then my mom kind of made
the whole  Taxi  thing happen.
So I have always felt
sort of protected
by something else out there.
>> George Noory: She's
watching down on you.
>> Marilu Henner:
She's watching.
>> George Noory:
Marilu keep doing it.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah
[laughter] I know.
Yeah, for sure.
>> George Noory: We're
going to look at another one
of our favorite clips here.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
>> George Noory:
Let's take a look.
>> Sit down.
Please. And tell
me about yourself.
>> [Laughter] What
do you want to know?
>> Anything.
I never met you before.
Who are you?
Tell me a typical
Elaine Nardo day.
>> Well okay.
Well, you see I got
this sort of schedule.
I'm very organized.
Sure sign of mental health.
Right [laughter]?
Right [laughter].
So okay, this is what I do.
I get up and I get the
kids ready for school.
Right? And then I drop them off
at school and I run my errands
or I do laundry, and
I prepare supper.
And then I go to the gallery
and I work for four hours.
Then I pick up the
kids and then we kind
of spend some time together.
You know, I help them with their
homework, I give them a bath,
or whatever, and I make supper.
And then when the baby sitter
comes I go to the garage
and I take out a cab
and I drive all night.
And that's all.
>> Wow [laughter].
>> I know it sounds like a lot.
But you know once you...
>> How long have
you been doing this?
>> A little over a year.
>> Wow [laughter].
>> Marilu Henner: [Laughter].
>> George Noory: I love it.
>> Marilu Henner: It's like
I watch that show and I go
when did that -- when
did we shoot that?
And I think, okay, Friday;
it was August the 24th, 1979.
That week I was on  The Tonight
Show  with David Letterman,
I met David Letterman for the
first time two days earlier.
You know the whole week kind
of lines itself up for me
when I see these clips.
And I remember shooting
that episode
and Tom Ule [assumed spelling]
was of course so great.
>> George Noory: Well
you have a great memory.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: As
a matter of fact one
of your bestselling books
Total Memory Makeover ,
based on the things
you do obviously.
Were you born this way or
did you train yourself?
>> Marilu Henner: Well,
I was definitely born
with something unusual which
they've now proven through all
of the testing and
everything else.
There was something --
there's something very unusual
about my memory, and
there are 12 of us now
that have been documented
with H-SAM,
Highly Superior Autobiographical
Memory.
And so I -- even as a little
girl I had a crazy memory.
People would say, "What with
that -- how come she remembers?"
And, you know, I'd
tell people, "Oh yeah,
remember we saw each
other again."
And I'd tell them
the date and things.
So I knew I had the best
memory in my family and then
as my circle got bigger
I knew among my friends.
And then college
among the other people
that I was going to school with.
But I really had no idea it was
that unusual or there was a name
for it until the whole
60 Minutes thing came
about a few years ago.
>> George Noory: Yes.
>> Marilu Henner: So now
they're finding that we've kind
of changed the medical
books and the textbooks,
and doctors, and stuff.
It's -- they've written
a paper about it.
So...
>> George Noory: Have
you ever been examined?
I mean do you have an enlarged
brain or anything like that?
>> Marilu Henner:
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
What happened was Leslie
Staub was a friend of mine
and she was offered
a story about a woman
who had an unusual memory.
She said hate to burst your
bubble my friend Marilu Henner
has the same memory.
So Diane Sawyer picked up
the story and it was on.
And then three years
later Leslie called me
and she said, "It is unusual.
We want you to go
through the testing."
So now I went through four
days of extensive testing.
They asked me over 500 questions
from history, from my history.
You know, because it's
all within my lifetime.
Things that they
had found about me.
They tested my -- every
memory test that people know.
Sequencing of numbers,
looking at something visually,
repeating a story,
every single thing.
So I went through all of
the typical memory testing
and then all
of the auto-biographical
memory testing.
Then what they do is they
wire my brain and they put me
through an MRI and they ask me
questions and they see how...
>> George Noory: [Inaudible].
>> Marilu Henner:
...everything fires up.
And they took 300 measurements.
They also took saliva samples,
skin samples, hair samples,
blood samples, kind
of motor skill testing
and they found nine areas
of my brain and the brains
of the other people
that are 10 times larger
than the normal brain.
>> George Noory: Amazing.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: So you
fire on all cylinders.
>> Marilu Henner:
[Laughter] Yeah, I guess so.
>> George Noory: All the time.
>> Marilu Henner:
[Laughter] I --
you know I just always
thought I had a lot of energy
but I guess that's
what [laughter]...
>> George Noory: When you
do your lines for  Taxi
and other programs
that you were on
and you memorized them did it --
obviously it came easy to you.
>> Marilu Henner: It did.
But that's more photographic
which is
like a single page of stuff.
It's kind of like
two-dimensional and just visual.
I think when you have H-SAM,
Highly Superior Autobiographical
Memory you're firing
on all your senses too.
So it's -- I'll remember when
I read a script the first time,
where I was sitting,
what I was wearing,
what the weather was like,
what the character reminded
me of in my own life.
Firing back on all
those experiences
and things like that.
So...
>> George Noory: How far
back can you remember?
You remember when you
were a little baby?
>> Marilu Henner: I remember
when I was a little baby.
In fact, I tell people that I
remember my baptism which is
when I was just a few weeks old.
>> George Noory: Whoa.
>> Marilu Henner: And I can
remember just the sensory kind
of images of it.
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: You
know, I wasn't going,
oh today's Sunday [laughter].
No, nothing like that.
But I remember the experience.
And I remember so much of being
a year old, two-years-old,
three-years-old, four before
most people can remember things.
You know, before most
people are wired for it.
But it really comes in like
every day of my life from 12,
11, you know -- like that.
>> George Noory: That's amazing.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah
it's pretty crazy.
>> George Noory: I
remember one episode
when I was 18-months-old.
It was my mother going
to deliver my sister.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: And
I remember the color
of the coat she was wearing.
My uncle was watching me.
And I remember her
fleeing out the front door.
And I told her all this years
later and she was just in shock.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah it
was the color of the coat.
>> George Noory: But
that's all I can remember.
And then I remember little
episodes in my life like,
you know --
I was seven-years-old and I had
a hamster in a little aquarium
and I'm holding it, a little
fishbowl and I'm running
down the street with
him and I tripped.
>> Marilu Henner: Uh-huh.
>> George Noory: And it broke.
>> Marilu Henner: Right.
>> George Noory: You know
and I had a little scar here.
>> Marilu Henner: Right.
>> George Noory: Maybe
it's the scar I remember.
>> Marilu Henner:
No you know what?
Dr. James McGaw who's the kind
of the main man for all of this,
you know, memory
research from UC Irvine.
He proved that memory
is tied to adrenaline.
>> George Noory: Okay.
>> Marilu Henner: So we -- all
of us, everybody sitting here.
We all remember the highs
and the lows of our lives.
You know? Not low
depression lows,
but I mean those high things...
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner: ...and
then those painful...
>> George Noory: Tragic things.
Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: Like whoa,
what just happened
kind of things.
So you know the adrenaline
was definitely pumping
in that little seven-year-old
George and the scar,
and the hamster losing.
So that was something that ended
up getting seared
onto your brain.
Now I don't know, they're
not testing our adrenaline
so I don't know if we
just have more adrenaline
than most people.
But it's definitely, you
know, those highs and lows
that most people do
remember in their lives.
And that's why in my book,
Total Memory Makeover ,
I'm always giving people
prompting exercises
because I'm trying to bring
back not only to help them
with the highs and lows and
how to handle those things.
But also to bring back some
of those sweeter more mundane
our town kinds of moments
of a conversation you might
have had with your dad,
or a dinner with your family,
or your family vacation,
or something from
your childhood.
A day in school and
stuff like that.
>> George Noory: We're going
to talk more about memory.
Let's take some questions
for Marilu Henner.
Just raise your hand and
we'll get right to you.
Who's got one?
Yes sir.
>> Hi Marilu.
>> Marilu Henner: Hi.
>> Do you remember anything
from a previous life
or did everything
start at your birth?
>> Marilu Henner: I don't --
I mean I get sort of feelings
about things like, -- oh have
I been here before or I --
and I think every girl thinks
she was Marie Antoinette
when she goes to [inaudible].
>> George Noory: Or Cleopatra.
>> Marilu Henner: Cleopatra
[inaudible] [laughter].
But I'm -- mainly it's
more since I've been born.
Since, you know -- so not --
impressions of maybe something
that maybe came from a
past life but I'm not --
I have never done a
past life regression
or anything like that.
But that's a good question.
Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> George Noory: I was your
pool boy in Alexandria.
>> Marilu Henner:
Yeah [laughter].
>> George Noory:
A long time ago.
>> Marilu Henner: That's the --
everybody wants those big roles.
>> George Noory: You
know what's funny
about reincarnation
[laughter] is
that everybody always
remembers themselves
as somebody famous [laughter].
>> Marilu Henner: Yes.
>> George Noory: You know?
I was Napoleon.
I was this or that.
Nobody's [laughter]
just an average person.
>> Marilu Henner:
Yes, that's right.
>> George Noory: [Inaudible].
>> Marilu Henner: Well and we
don't have enough resources
to probably know what
that life would be like.
So when we read something
about somebody famous we go,
"Oh yeah that sounds
familiar [laughter]."
You know?
>> George Noory: And of course
"Beyond Belief" is worldwide
so we have a question way
out there for you Marilu.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh great.
>> George Noory:
Let's listen in.
>> Katelyn: Hey Marilu this
is Katelyn in New Mexico.
I love that you stand
for health.
Can you suggest a way
that people can stay away
from harmful foods such as
the occasional hamburger?
>> Marilu Henner: [Laughter].
>> George Noory: Okay you are --
you are a health fanatic when
it comes to what you eat.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah, I am.
>> George Noory: So that's
an interesting question.
>> Marilu Henner: You know
my parents died in their 50s.
My father died of a heart
attack at 52-years-old.
I was 17 at the time.
My mother died of arthritis
at 58, the complications.
I mean she was basically
teaching dancing in December,
went to bed with the flu in
January, went into the hospital
in February because it was
a brutal Chicago winter.
She had her leg amputated
in April.
>> George Noory: Oh geese.
>> Marilu Henner: As
a dancing teacher.
And she died in May.
And I was watching
the doctors try all
of these things with her body.
You know, no matter what
they put into her --
cut or, you know -- did
whatever her body was trying
to make sense of it
and I kept thinking --
I had a real epiphany watching
my mother die, basically.
I said can you imagine if
you do the right things
for your body how much
your body will respond
if your body is still trying
to rally even with everything
that she was going through.
So I became a real student
of health after she died.
And I became obsessed
and I think maybe
because of my memory I was
able to read something...
>> George Noory: Sure.
>> Marilu Henner: ...and cross
connect it with something else
and put layer, layer, layer
all of this information.
So I just started practicing
on myself and it took me years
to put a program together.
But since that time I've lived a
certain lifestyle, a certain way
of eating and everything.
So I -- well first of all I
think every day of your life --
there's no such thing
as cheating.
Oh I was bad, I was this.
Every day you're in the
laboratory of your life.
>> George Noory: Constantly.
>> Marilu Henner: Constantly.
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: This
is all an experiment
and every day you're
doing the experiment
and some experiments
work, some of them don't.
So just be mindful of what's
working for you and what isn't.
So in terms of the
hamburger, cheeseburger,
whatever she wants
once in a while.
Do that with gusto because if
you're punishing yourself while
you're having a good time
eating something that's going
to be worse.
But as a basic thing
I always say learn
to love the food that loves you.
You know, find a way to
eat a more plant-based diet
because that food loves you.
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner: It's more
designed for your teeth,
and your tongue, and your
enzymes, and your hormones,
and your digestive track,
and everything that works.
But, you know, we're this
beautiful human animal.
We have to move every day.
We have to eat the foods that
we're designed to break down.
So, you know, I say keep trying.
You know sometimes life
is three steps forward
and two steps back, six steps
forward eight steps back.
Whatever it is.
So to Katelyn from New
Mexico I think enjoy
that occasional hamburger if
that's what you really want.
But try to incorporate more
plant based foods into your diet
and learn to love the
food that loves you.
>> George Noory: See I have
found that I feel guilty
if I do something like that.
If I'm on this regiment and I'm
doing okay, I'm clicking along
and then you decide to
do something like that.
Grab the cheeseburger
or something.
You're driving past a fast food
place and you're starving...
>> Marilu Henner: Right.
>> George Noory:
...so you do that.
And you then feel guilty
that you did it afterwards.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: You
kind of kick yourself.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
Well I mean if that's what you
need to get back on the horse.
You know some times people have
to do things with gusto and say,
"Okay I'm going to
get right back on,
you know, my good program."
Now I enjoyed that.
That's over.
I'm glad that spell is over.
And then sometimes you
have to say, "Okay.
I could do this every
day unless I --
you know, introduce that
guilt into my life."
Then, you know.
But I totally understand
what you mean.
And especially, you know,
if you're somebody who has
to take their little whip
out once in a while...
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: ...that's
what kind of got you
out of the neighborhood
[laughter].
>> George Noory: That's right.
>> Marilu Henner: Or that's
what got you to be successful.
So whatever you need.
You know, understand
the difference
between self-motivation,
and self-sabotage.
You know? And I think that a lot
of times people don't
recognize the differences
between those two things.
>> George Noory: So true.
So true. Let's take another
question for Marilu Henner.
Yes sir.
>> Roger: Mary is your memory
at a constant high level
or are there times when it's
not as good or conditions
when you can't quite remember,
as well as you would
normally do?
>> Marilu Henner:
That's a great question.
This is how I always
describe it.
It's like a pilot light
that's always there.
And let's say I'm driving in the
car and a [snapping] song comes
on and I'll flip through
like all the times
that I've heard the
song or the first time,
or what that song
really means to me.
And sometimes I'm on the phone
with my sister so that'll flash
and I won't flame up
the pilot light of that.
You know? So it's always
there and it can be as strong
or as low as I want it to be.
And then sometimes people will
give me a date and it'll --
my mind will go right there.
I'll like scan because of the
way I see my life and it's
like running through a montage
-- a movie montage or something.
And sometimes it'll be like
whoa, it'll go right there
and sometimes it
takes a little while.
It's almost like
photograph developing.
Sometimes it comes
out like a Polaroid,
like a full image right
away and sometimes it's
like a little bit -- it's in the
tray a little while and then,
oh yeah, there's this,
and then, da, da, da.
You know it's interesting
you ask and there --
to me there are four
types of memory retrieval
and I'm operating on all four
and sometimes there's one
that happens over the other.
But it would be interesting
to see
if people understand
what I'm talking about.
I hope so anyway [laughter].
Let's say I asked you
about a wedding and --
I'm sorry, what's your name?
>> Roger: Roger.
>> Marilu Henner: Roger.
Okay.
>> George Noory: Did
you forget his name?
>> Marilu Henner: No [laughter].
So Roger, if I said to you, "Oh
Roger how was that wedding?"
And you said, "Oh it was great.
We got there Friday; we went
to the rehearsal dinner.
I got up and did a run.
Then we went to this..."
And you start telling
me in a very kind of --
I don't' want to say -- surfacy,
but sort of giving
me the chronology.
You know in a chronological
order.
I call that horizontal memory.
Because it works
sort of in that way.
Friday to Saturday morning
to Saturday afternoon.
You know like that
kind of thing.
If I said, "How was
that wedding?"
And you said, "Oh my gosh I had
a conversation with my cousin.
We were standing there."
And you start describing
this whole conversation.
What music was playing,
what they were wearing,
what you were wearing.
You know whatever.
What you were drinking.
And you go deeper, deeper,
deeper into the specifics,
the themes of what
you're talking about.
That's like a vertical memory.
If I said, "Roger,
how was that wedding?"
And you said, "Oh my gosh.
There was a guy I met there.
We were having lunch -- I
mean we had two weeks later.
It was great.
We're going to do
business together."
That's what I call a
mushrooming memory.
Because I asked you about
something specific...
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner: ...but all
of a sudden it mushroomed.
Something that grew from
that experience mushroomed
to something else.
So that's what I
call a mushroom.
So we have horizontal,
vertical, and mushrooming.
And then the fourth time --
fourth type I call sporadic.
And if I said, "Roger
how was that wedding?"
And you said, "Oh my gosh there
was a guy there who looked just
like my boss and instantly I
was back in that office thinking
about what a jerk that guy was,
how he took credit
for all my work."
So now it's had nothing
to do with the wedding.
It's not like you met
somebody at the wedding.
You've now [inaudible]
out somewhere else
because something reminded you.
So those kinds of memories come
in all the time for everybody.
What usually happens when
I work with people and try
to do memory retrieval is they
feel like, oh I feel like I have
to do it in chronological order
but I want to go somewhere else.
It's like take the ride.
Your mind is so amazing.
>> George Noory: And let
it take you somewhere.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah let
it take you some place.
So anyway I hope that answered
your question [laughter].
>> George Noory: And let's take
one more question for Marilu.
Who's got it?
Yeah. Yes sir.
Right here.
>> Okay first off I just want to
say you were great in Perfect.
>> Marilu Henner:
[Laughter] Oh, thank you.
>> I know a lot of
people probably forgot
about that movie but...
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah
the critiques especially.
>> [Laughter].
>> Marilu Henner:
[Laughter] and John Travolta
and Jamie Lee Curtis
probably too.
>> Oh yeah.
I was wondering, did you
serve as a consultant
or do script corrections for
Unforgettable  the show?
>> Marilu Henner: Oh yes I do.
Well thank you for asking.
>> George Noory: How about that?
>> Marilu Henner:
It's going back again.
It's coming back at
the end of July...
>> George Noory: Oh
that's really cool.
>> Marilu Henner:
...which is great.
Yeah [applause], yeah.
Yay.
>> George Noory: Good for you.
>> Marilu Henner:
Well you know we were
like the highest rated show
ever canceled or something.
And so they thought they'd try
something else in the time slot
and so they didn't
-- it didn't work
so that show was cancelled too.
But they brought us
back for the summer.
We're going to see how it is.
But yeah Poppy Montgomery's
character,
she plays Carrie Wells a
detective, a cop who has my kind
of memory, who has H-SAM.
So I've been a consultant on the
show and it's fun to sort of,
you know, find things
in the script
that they wouldn't normally
think of that I'm telling them.
Like for example they
had this one episode
where Carrie was talking
about -- she was --
the other cop has had a
past relationship with her
so she's talking about a party
that they went to July 17, 1999.
So I read that in the script
and I said, "Oh, if she's going
to talk about July 17, 1999 she
has to talk about what was going
on in the world that day."
Does anybody here know?
What -- like July 17th?
It was a Saturday [laughter].
July 17th.
>> George Noory: Saturday, 1999?
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
What was happening?
>> George Noory: I have no idea.
Anybody know?
>> Marilu Henner:
Does anybody know?
Okay so when I read
this is said,
"Somebody with Carrie's
memory would definitely say
that that was the weekend
that the news was flooded
with John F. Kennedy Jr.'s
having gone down in the plane.
That you couldn't --
everybody was talking about it.
It was all over the news.
The plane went down the
night before on the 16th.
So Carrie if she's talking
about that weekend she
would mention that.
And I said, "So you can do
that and put a mention in
or you can pick another day."
And they said, "Okay we'll
pick another day [laughter]
because we don't want to have."
So I have found just little
things like that in the script
that other people
might not notice.
And there have been some really
funny gaffs that they've made
and they've had to reshoot
because after reading it
they had the wrong date
or the -- you know, whatever.
So yeah.
>> George Noory: Does the brain
selectively remove information
because it just doesn't
need it in your head?
>> Marilu Henner: In my head?
>> George Noory: Or anybody's.
>> Marilu Henner: I
think that people think
that there's this constant
pruning that goes on.
But I guess I don't prune.
I guess I...
>> George Noory: You keep.
>> Marilu Henner: I keep and
I -- it gets very organized.
So that -- and its -- and,
you know, it's very connect --
it's barcoded against
a time line which seems
to me the ultimate
organizing tool.
You know, a calendar.
And you want to hear
something really crazy?
Okay. I'm married
to my third husband.
He's the love of my life.
>> George Noory: I
think the world of him.
Michael, by the way.
>> Marilu Henner: He's great.
Michael yeah.
My stepson is here
today, Michael Brown.
Like younger Michael Brown.
And he is -- Michael is -- we
knew each other in college.
18-year-old he was my
college roommate's boyfriend
and we lost contact and now
we reconnected 10 years ago.
But we [inaudible] roots to
our lives and everything else.
Anyway, long story short,
he's the number one
calendar publisher [laughter]
in the world.
So it's kind of crazy that
I [laughter] am married
to like the number
one calendar guy.
>> George Noory:
There's the date.
>> Marilu Henner:
It's kind of funny.
[Laughter] Yeah.
>> George Noory: That's great.
>> Marilu Henner: It's not
-- it's kind of ironic.
>> George Noory: It's
an interesting story too
because you helped him through a
very dangerous medical situation
didn't you.
>> Marilu Henner: Yes.
We reconnected as I said a
little over 10 years ago.
And love of my life, we
knew that we were going
to spend the rest of our lives
together after the first date.
And two months into our
relationship he was diagnosed
with two cancers.
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: Bladder
cancer and lung cancer.
And I had been such
a student of health
and had this whole network of
doctors and things and I said,
"Okay, failure's not an option.
I'm not meeting the
love of my life."
So we went to a lot of different
doctors all over the country.
Great ones.
Not so great ones.
Because I wanted him to see you
know the typical doctors to sort
of say, okay, that's not
the route we're going to go.
And through a series
of, you know,
putting together a great
protocol for him no chemo,
no radiation, he's been in
remission 10 years this October.
>> George Noory: How
about that [applause].
>> Marilu Henner: Amazing.
Seriously.
Thank you.
so that's the book I'm
working on now called --
I wanted a really
provocative title because I
like to be real spicy
with people --
it's called  How I Cured
My Husands Cancer .
And I'm writing not
like a how to book
like all my other books are.
I'm writing it like a love
story memoir but it's got lots
of great information in there.
It's our journey.
So nobody can say...
>> George Noory: How
important is attitude?
With Michael?
With you? To fight that.
>> Marilu Henner: So --
well first of all
attitude is everything.
Attitude is the most...
>> George Noory: In anything.
>> Marilu Henner: In anything.
In anything.
I go around the country
giving lectures
and I've tailor made a -- kind
of an A to Z of health speech
that I've done for seventh
grade girls, and I've done
at the motion picture
home in Los Angeles
for people in their 80s and 90s.
And I always say
A is for attitude.
Because it is the
cornerstone of everything.
It's the gusto of your life.
It's being able to adjust to
plan B because let's face it,
you know, the key to your
life is how well you deal
with plan B. If you have to be
dragged kicking and screaming
to what actually happens to
you and you don't look at it
as an opportunity to improve
then, you know, you're going
to be a miserable person.
So it's really that whole
glass half full rather
than half empty.
Your attitude is everything.
It makes or breaks your life.
So you constantly
have to keep moving.
You have to constantly
evaluate and move on.
You know? Sit Shiva.
You know, do whatever
you have to do.
Something doesn't work
out, you don't get a job,
you don't get a person, you
don't get some opportunity
but then learn from
the experience.
But see this is why -- this is
why an auto-biographical memory
is so important.
Because if every day you just
wake up, you live your life,
your turn off the
light, you go to sleep.
You wake up, you live your life,
you turn off the
light, you go to sleep.
And nothing has moved
forward with you.
No good information.
No understanding the red flags.
No really analyzing experiences.
If nothing's moved forward
with you well then
what does it all mean?
So to me really developing a
strong auto-biographical memory,
it's the strongest
line of defense
against meaninglessness
that we have.
Because we have to
be able to do that.
You know? So yeah.
See and it's all
about your attitude.
It's your attitude.
I met Marilu at a health expo
in Los Angeles some time ago
and she subsequently has
been on Coast to Coast
but I will distinctly remember
the energy that was around you.
>> Marilu Henner: Thank you.
>> George Noory:
There are some people
that we call psychic vampires.
They just exhaust you.
Right? [Laughter] You're next
to them [banging] you
go, "Oh I can't take it."
>> Marilu Henner:
You're lying on the floor
with drool coming
out of your mouth.
>> George Noory: I know.
>> Marilu Henner:
Because you've been hooked
up to the human vacuum
cleaner [laughter].
>> George Noory: Exactly.
And then there are other
people like Marilu Henner
where it just glows and you need
to be around a person like that.
You have that.
>> Marilu Henner: I love you.
You're so great.
>> George Noory:
It's all about you.
>> Marilu Henner: You too.
You too.
>> George Noory: Well
but you can tell.
You can tell when
you're on television.
You can tell -- you've got
your own radio show going on.
>> Marilu Henner: Yes.
I'm so excited.
Every morning between 5:00
and 8:00 -- I'm up early.
It's on -- it's in
different cities so far
but it's also streamlining
on the Internet.
It's called the Marilu
show and it's on, you know,
8:00 to 11:00 I guess
East Coast.
>> George Noory: Can they
find that on your website?
>> Marilu Henner: Yes.
>> George Noory: Okay.
>> Marilu Henner: They can find
it on my website at marilu.com
or marilushow.com will connect
you with your closest thing.
And I'm having so much fun
because I'm having people
like Dr. Neil Barnard on.
>> George Noory: [Inaudible].
>> Marilu Henner: But I'm also
having people like Gary Busey.
He's been on.
>> George Noory:
He's a character.
Isn't he [laughter]?
>> Marilu Henner: Oh
my gosh [laughter].
I've been [inaudible]
[laughter].
You know?
>> George Noory: He was
on Coast to Coast once.
I asked him one question
and I left for 20 minutes
and came back [laughter].
I mean he just kept going.
>> Marilu Henner: I know.
>> George Noory: And
going, and going.
>> Marilu Henner: And he
was probably levitating
by the time he finished.
He's like a -- he's
pretty crazy.
But he's got a big
heart and very sweet.
>> George Noory:
[Inaudible] just don't air it
in the wee hours that's all.
>> Marilu Henner: No, no.
In fact they said to me just --
he said, "You are
such a morning show."
He said you are the exact
opposite of George Noory.
He said, "George Noory
is definitely late night,
driving dark."
You know, like, that's spooky.
But you know what I'm saying.
>> George Noory: It
is spooky sometimes.
>> Marilu Henner: It is spooky.
I think it's cool.
Its cool spooky.
Yeah, so I'm doing it
first thing in the morning
and just have a whole range of
guests and topics and I'm having
such a good time in my...
>> George Noory: Good for you.
>> Marilu Henner: And my
co-host is my brother Lauren.
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: So I -- we
get the guys viewpoint and...
>> George Noory: You
don't stop do you?
You don't stop.
I mean you do that.
You're doing auditions,
you're doing shows.
You were on  Celebrity
Apprentice .
>> Marilu Henner: I was
on  Celebrity Apprentice
which was a great experience.
It was a lot of fun.
I got to make $100,000 for
the Alzheimer's Association...
>> George Noory: Good for you.
>> Marilu Henner:
...which was nice.
And I'm doing a show
in New York starting --
well I go to New York July --
the end of July and then
rehearse for two weeks
and then perform
at Bucks County.
It's connected to Lincoln
center which is really cool.
And I was just on two
episodes of  The Glades ,
which will be airing
later this -- in July.
And I was on  Two
and a Half Men ,
playing Ashton Kutcher's
love interest [laughter]
for the finale.
So I'm probably going
to come back.
Yeah, that deserves
a hand [laughter].
>> George Noory: It does.
It does [applause].
>> Marilu Henner:
[Laughter] Yeah.
>> George Noory: What
drives you, Marilu?
What keeps pushing you?
>> Marilu Henner:
You know, I think --
I come from a big
family that always --
has always had a lot of spirit.
Parents who were
just extraordinary.
My mother was extremely
creative.
My father was always,
you know, very smart.
And I think that having
those two role models;
real entrepreneurial
both of them.
I think I'm always trying
to make life better.
You know? I love people
to come to my house.
And you know, I think there's
something about growing
up in the midwest or
the Great Lakes people.
>> George Noory: Absolutely.
>> Marilu Henner: We have little
resistance to something new.
As strange as that sounds
I think that -- I --
this has been my
experience anyway.
There's New York and they
have their New York attitude.
And then there's L.A. and
they have their L.A. attitude.
But you grow up in Chicago,
or in Michigan, and you hear
about these two extremes and you
say, "What's the phone number?"
[Laughter] You know?
You're curious and you're
interested and if you get
out of sort of --
I always say it's
like the brown rice
of the country.
Because you kind of
go with everything.
You're kind of balanced.
A good pH you know.
>> George Noory: Yes.
>> Marilu Henner:
And I just feel --
I don't know, I think what
drives me is I just want things
to be better for
people and better --
I feel like I'm always
a student.
I'm always learning
something and I think
that that's what drives me.
Learning. There's
so much to learn.
So much to experience.
Let me ask; Danny
-- Danny DeVito.
[Laughter] Is he
easy to work with?
Yes, he's nodding his head.
>> Marilu Henner:
[Laughter] It's funny.
When my boys first met
Danny they were very little.
>> George Noory: How tall is he?
>> Marilu Henner: He's 4'10".
People always thought I
was going to be much taller
because they put him at
5'2" but he's really 4'10".
But when my kids met him
when they were little we --
they had met him when
they were very little
and then they hadn't
seen him for a few years
and when we saw each other
we were in an elevator
because the -- he and Ria were
staying in the same hotel.
And he -- they left the
elevator and they went, "Mom.
He's our height."
>> George Noory: [Laughter].
>> Marilu Henner: [Laughter]
He's -- they were so excited.
>> George Noory: He is.
>> Marilu Henner:
He's fantastic though.
>> George Noory: [Inaudible].
>> Marilu Henner: A
whole new audience
with  It's Always
Sunny in Philadelphia .
I mean, he's great.
He's really a great guy.
Yeah, I love those guys.
>> George Noory: Do
you take supplements
for your memory at all?
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Marilu Henner: Not so much
for my -- I take supplements.
I mean, I...
>> George Noory: You do.
>> Marilu Henner:
So I take a lot
of the longevity supplements.
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: I
love their osteo affects
and I love their
ultimate classic.
I also take a vegan fish oil
because they don't
do a vegan one.
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner: But I take
a vegan fish oil from Ascenta
which I really love too.
So I take, you know, I
take supplements like that.
But I eat well.
I exercise.
I do something every
day to break a sweat.
Because it's -- you know I
always say, "You walk your dog.
You get a hamster wheel.
You cat stretches.
You're this beautiful
human animal.
Get out there and move."
So I do something like
that every day -- but yeah.
>> George Noory: What
is it about memory
where one day you feel as if
you're as sharp as a tack.
And then the next day you forget
where you put your car keys.
As simple as that may seem.
>> Marilu Henner: Well
I think that people --
first of all people
have gotten lazy.
We've all gotten lazy.
All of us.
We are not -- you know,
you get in trouble
for actually dialing your phone
because you're spending
too much time looking
at it when you're driving.
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: I mean it's
-- you probably shouldn't --
we probably shouldn't
be driving and...
>> George Noory:
And texting and...
>> Marilu Henner: Well
definitely not texting
but even trying to
get a phone number.
So we've gotten lazy.
We have speed dial.
We have the Internet to
go through so we're not --
you know, everything
is so at our fingertips
that we've lost some kind
of discipline when it comes
to really working our brains.
You know? So I think that some
days -- and sometimes you're --
you know, what's good for your
body is good for your brain.
So if your brain isn't working
chances are you didn't do
something good for
your body that day.
Whether you're not
hydrated enough
or you haven't gotten enough
oxygen from enough exercise,
or you've maybe eaten
food that's sort
of clogging your brain.
Because you can definitely
feel like that brain fog.
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner: From
-- and lack of sleep.
>> George Noory: Sure.
>> Marilu Henner:
That's a huge one too.
People who don't sleep enough.
Yeah it's -- that's the thing
I have to work on the most.
>> George Noory:
I always thought
that the keys just
feel into some portal.
>> Marilu Henner: [Laughter].
Yeah.
>> George Noory: And then
somebody brought them back
or something.
[Laughter] But its -- but
sometimes it's frustrating.
I mean...
>> Marilu Henner: Sure.
>> George Noory: ...I'll be on
the Internet sometimes ready
to go to a website and forget
the website I'm going to.
>> Marilu Henner: Because
you're 10 beats ahead.
>> George Noory: And then it
comes back to you later on.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: But it
gets frustrating sometimes.
>> Marilu Henner: Sure.
Like people always ask my kids,
"Well does mom ever
lose her keys?
Does she ever lose..."
And they say, "Oh my gosh.
She loses her keys.
She loses her sunglasses."
They say, "Well what
does she do?"
And they said, "Well
this is what she does.
She's like where are my keys?
Where are my sun -- and then all
of a sudden she'll stand there
and you can see her
like scrolling back
through the montage of --
oh yeah, I walked in
yesterday, turned to the right.
I went to the bathroom; I
did this -- blah, blah, blah.
That's where my keys are."
You know so maybe
scroll through your day.
One of the things I always
tell people when they say,
"Well how do I improve
my memory?"
Well there's two big
things you can do.
You can identify what
is your primary track.
Because everyone has one.
Everyone has something that
they remember especially well.
Whether its travel,
relationships,
jobs that they've done.
Sports is a huge track for guys.
Hairdos, clothes, food.
I can't believe how many people
have a primarily track of food.
But in the jigsaw puzzle of your
life identifying your track is
kind of finding those
hard edged pieces
that will help you interconnect
the other pieces and sort
of make the whole picture.
So you think about your primary
track and then you also figure
out what is your dominant sense.
And in my book I have a
little dominant sense quiz.
Just 10 questions that will
help you identify what's your
dominant sense.
Because that's how
you receive, retain,
and then retrieve memories.
So if you're a visual person,
you figure out you're a visual
person maybe once a day take a
picture of something
that's iconic for the day.
Like, oh yeah, this is going
to make today's experience.
So you identify with
the picture.
Or even just take it in
your head and say okay,
this is how I'm going
to remember this day.
Or if you're a sound
person do kind
of like a sound check
once in a while.
Close your eyes.
Really take in what
am listening to?
What does this day mean to me?
Because having those two
and then cross connecting
them will help you remember a
lot more.
And then at night when
you're brushing your teeth --
you're supposed to do it for two
minutes but most people don't --
scroll through the movie
montage of your day.
Because that second
time through is going
to make a big difference.
>> George Noory: It locks it in.
>> Marilu Henner:
It locks it in.
It sears it a little more.
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: I'm convinced
that the brain is like a camera.
And so if we look at this entire
audience you will have the
imprint of everybody in here.
Every face.
>> Marilu Henner: Right.
>> George Noory: You might not
remember them all 10 minutes
later but somehow if you can
pull that out it's in there.
>> Marilu Henner: It's in there.
Oh I don't think
anything is ever lost.
I think everything is on
your emotional hard drive
and it's making you
do things whether
or not you acknowledge them.
You know, it's making you
behave so why not bring
that information
to the foreground
and let it inform
a better future.
Let it help you make
decisions etcetera.
>> George Noory: A
friend of mine, adorable,
had the worst memory
of anybody I knew
and she was constantly
looking for ways to improve it.
And she was watching
television one day
and she saw this video
pop up for memory tapes.
And she got all excited because
she was convinced this was going
to change her life.
It was going to save her.
She forgot the toll free number.
>> Marilu Henner: [Laughter].
And it never came on again?
>> George Noory:
It never came on.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh.
That must have been
pre-Internet because you go
like go in there and...
>> George Noory: Exactly.
>> Marilu Henner: ...find it.
>> George Noory: That
was a long time ago.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: Is it energy
or is it biological memory?
I mean are you tapping...
>> Marilu Henner: It's both.
>> George Noory: ...into
something that's out there?
>> Marilu Henner:
I think it's both.
I definitely think
feel like I'm tapping
into something that's out there.
But I definitely -- and it's
-- you know, I loved this.
First of all being one of six
kids you look for anything
that distinguishes you from
your brothers and sisters.
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Marilu Henner: So I was --
because you know you're
like part of a litter.
You're like cats in a bag, you
know, when you're six kids.
So I always appreciated
the fact that I had this
and it was definitely
something I played up a lot.
And I would literally
fall asleep
as a little girl going okay,
what did I do a week ago,
two weeks ago, three weeks ago?
This day in school a year ago.
Now I lie in bed when I'm having
trouble sleeping and I say,
okay what was I doing when I
was exactly to the day as old
as my son, and then
my other son.
Or my nieces, or you
know people like --
and I try to like remember.
And I do it not only
because it's kind
of a fun time travel exercise,
but it's also good for people
to do that because
you can say, okay I --
this has changed about me.
Oh this hasn't.
Oh that person from that time.
Oh I got to watch
out for -- you know.
So it's information.
>> George Noory: Sure.
>> Marilu Henner: And
you use it at some time.
>> George Noory: I
remember distinctly
when John F. Kennedy
was assassinated.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: You
know November 22, 1963.
I was in school.
I remember my teacher coming in.
She was crying.
That episode I will
never forget.
>> Marilu Henner: A gentleman.
>> George Noory: But I don't
remember anything before it
and after it.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: You
know it is an episode --
so is it the episode that you
remember that locks you into...
>> Marilu Henner: A timeline.
>> George Noory:
...what you were doing?
The timeline.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah, well
it's that adrenaline thing
that I was talking about.
>> George Noory: Okay.
>> Marilu Henner: I mean the
whole world was mobilized
at that point.
And I remember that day.
I remember that day
because I was in Chicago.
Raymond Flores came in.
He was kind of one
of the bad kids.
Maybe [inaudible].
>> George Noory:
He's watching now.
>> Marilu Henner: He's
probably watching now.
But he was like, one of
sort of the bad boys.
You know? And I remember
Sister Florence --
I'm sure she's not still around.
Sister Florence -- he
came in late and he said
that he was late
because he found
out that the president was shot.
>> George Noory: And nobody
else knew at the time?
>> Marilu Henner: No,
nobody knew at the time.
And she started beating him
up for like, that bad excuse.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Marilu Henner: She
said "Of all the excuses."
Yeah, she thought he was lying
and started hitting
him and hitting him.
>> George Noory: Oh my God.
>> Marilu Henner: And then...
>> George Noory: With a ruler.
>> Marilu Henner: ...all
of a sudden they came
over the loudspeaker please pray
for -- you know and told us...
>> George Noory: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: And she's
like, "Get back to your seat."
[Laughter] You know?
And I thought oh my Gosh.
>> George Noory:
Yeah, what a time.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah, but
it's Catholic school so.
>> George Noory: Let's
take some more questions
for Marilu Henner.
Yes sir. Right here.
>> Marilu I'm wondering,
most people from a young age
have a fear of public speaking
which relates to memory.
Excuse me.
And I'm wondering with your
memory does that give you
like extra confidence
as you were growing up?
You know going from the pilgrim
place up to TV and so on.
>> Marilu Henner: You know,
my family had a dancing school
in Chicago in our backyard.
We had 200 students between
the age of two and 80.
Including, the nuns that came
over for stretch classes.
And my mother also ran a
beauty shop in our kitchen.
It was decorated like
a salon and 25 women
from the neighborhood would come
and get their hair
done [laughter].
And then my uncle lived upstairs
from us with 10 cats, two dogs,
two birds, a skunk, 150 fish
and his boyfriend Charles
and he taught art
at the Catholic grammar
school next door
and ran art classes upstairs.
And he was also the
neighborhood astrologist
and had a cat hospital
on the roof.
So that was a real
confidence builder.
Okay [laughter]?
I mean being kind
of the social center
of the neighborhood everybody
hung out at our house.
Everybody had their first
kiss probably some place
on our property.
And because we were like the
Kennedy's of Logan Square we --
that was the confidence builder.
So, you know, being a
little kid and performing.
You get kids up there early
and they don't even know
to be feared -- to be fearful.
You know, I got my kids up in
front of people in little plays
and things like that
when they were four,
and they're both very
confident speakers.
So I think it had more to do
with the way I was raised
than even my memory.
I mean my memory saved me from
totally embarrassing myself.
Or I don't mind embarrassing
myself.
I've done it a lot.
I may be doing it
today I don't know.
But I just, you know -- but
I think it had more to do
with being part of that
kind of Henner world,
that crazy way of growing up.
That's a great question.
Thank you.
>> George Noory: All right.
Let's go to our "Beyond
Belief" cam
for another question
for Marilu Henner.
>> Michael: Hi Marilu.
It's Michael from Portland.
I was wondering if you believe
everyone has the capabilities
of having a memory like you.
>> Marilu Henner: He's
so handsome [laughter].
I don't know that I
could turn anybody
into a person with H-SAM.
I think that there are people
who could be borderline.
They could improve
their memories
and then definitely would be.
They just don't know.
Because I did a speech at the
college of doctors at the --
at Cedar Sinai and there
was a doctor who specializes
in Parkinson's disease
and he said,
"I've never heard memory
described the way you
described it."
And now it's making me
realize that some of the people
that I'm working with
I have to talk to them
about this way of
looking at memory.
So I think that a lot of people
typically think of memory
as remembering people's faces
or memorizing a list of numbers.
You know, and I think
that because memory sits
on so many different parts
of the brain, various types
of memories sit on
different parts
of the brain developing your
autobiographical memory could be
very powerful in ways that
you never exercised before.
So I think there's
some borderline people
that could turn into H-SAMers
and then there are people --
I think everyone can
improve their memory.
I think you can remember
so much more.
I did a seminar a few years
ago, and I had 300 people
in the audience and I said,
"How many people here
remember their freshman
in high school schedule?"
And people were like,
oh come on.
And one girl raised her hand
and I said, "How old are you?"
And she said, "15."
And I said, "Honey you
better remember [laughter]."
>> George Noory: That's right.
>> Marilu Henner:
That was last year.
>> George Noory: Exactly.
>> Marilu Henner: But within 15
minutes all but three people --
and I think they
were just resistant.
All but three people
had their schedule.
Because you start -- oh, you
start bringing things back.
I mean I'm sure all of you
could start thinking --
you start thinking okay,
who was at my lunch table.
There's different ways in.
Different ways in.
You think oh, I was
always late for chemistry.
Or I had a -- you know my last
thing of the day was gym or --
and you start pulling things
in however you pull them in.
And you might be starting
with your dominant sense
or your primary track and you
start filling in the blanks.
And within 15 minutes
I bet you most
of this room could
have their freshman
in high school schedule.
Where they were.
So it's just in there.
You know it's really in there.
>> George Noory: Truly amazing.
>> Marilu Henner: So I know that
you can definitely improve it.
>> George Noory: Truly.
Let's take one more
question for Marilu.
Yes sir. All the
way in the back.
>> In your research, what you've
done have you found anything
that helps both with the memory
and with the different
conditions
with the eating right
for the blood type?
Have you found that to
be any success, also.
>> Marilu Henner:
Well it's not --
eating right for the blood type,
unfortunately my father was a
Type O and at that diet and died
of a heart attack at 52.
So I don't know about that.
But whatever.
But I think what's
good for your body
as I always say is
good for your brain.
And when I went into
-- after my mother died
and it was a real
turning point for me.
That was my health epiphany.
I started studying
about heart --
about arthritis because
she had been
on what she called her arthritis
diet a few months before --
a few years before she died.
And it was things -- and I
never made that connection
between and health before.
So I started there with
the arthritis diet.
And then I started reading
about for heart attacks
what you should...
>> George Noory:
Started studying.
>> Marilu Henner: And there were
so many things that
were similar.
You know, so many things and
now studying the brain as much
as I have a lot of --
there might be some specific
things like for arthritis.
Let's say the nightshade
family, you know,
peppers potatoes,
eggplant, tomatoes.
Things that have too
much arginine in them.
Sometimes peanuts.
Too much sun.
Things like that.
But, you know, I really think
that everything is cardio
vascular and connected
to elimination and just getting
all the nutrients to your brain
so that your brain works better
and it's good for your heart
and your bones as well.
So I think there are some
little specific foods for each
of the diseases but
they're def- --
it's definitely an
overall health thing.
And it's more of a
plant based diet.
Whole foods -- plant based diet.
>> George Noory: We
are going to come back
in just a moment
with Marilu Henner.
Don't wait because it's
coming up next [laughter].
[Applause]
And welcome back to "Beyond
Belief" we're with actress
and memory expert Marilu Henner.
This is exciting.
I always like seeing you.
>> Marilu Henner: I
always like seeing you too.
>> George Noory:
It's refreshing.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> George Noory: So we're
going to do an experiment.
We're going to do a memory
test with Anita and...
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
>> George Noory:
...Anita come on up here.
And we're going to -- we're
going to [applause] --
we're going to test you.
>> Anita: Okay.
>> Marilu Henner: Well this is
some -- it's funny I was in --
you know, I told you this
was my first time in Boulder
and I found this great
vegan restaurant last night
called Leaf.
It was fabulous.
And I was sitting there with
my step-son having dinner
and there was a birthday party
thing going on next to us
and when we left they
said, "Oh we saw you
on  Celebrity Apprentice .
Blah, blah, blah."
And I said, "Oh today's
your birthday?
What year were you born?"
And she said, "1976".
And I said, "Oh,
that was a Tuesday."
And then I said, "Oh do you
remember your 21st birthday?
June 15, 1997 was a Sunday."
You know so we just started...
>> George Noory: Amazing.
>> Marilu Henner:
...doing things like that.
So that's one of my favorite
things to do with people is
to -- because everybody
always asks me --
gives me the date
of their birthday.
And sometimes, you know, it's
before I'm born or its --
I was very tiny or something.
But -- and they certainly
were tiny.
You know [laughter]?
They really don't remember what
they were doing on that day.
But then I always turn it around
and ask them their
21st birthday.
So you said that you volunteered
to tell us your birthday.
>> Anita: Sure.
>> Marilu Henner:
What's your birthday?
>> Anita: November 11, 1957.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay
so November 11, 1957.
Okay so that's like a
little early in my life...
>> Anita: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner:
...but that's okay.
But November 11, 1957.
>> George Noory: Were
you even around then?
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: All right.
>> Marilu Henner: I was.
That was a Monday.
Yeah, November 11,
1957 was a Monday.
>> Anita: Wow.
>> Marilu Henner: And so --
but November 11th, so '57.
So that would be '78.
Right?
>> Anita: For my 21st?
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
1978. Okay.
November 11, 1978 I remember
exactly what I was doing
on that day.
November 11, 1978 I know exactly
what I was doing on that day.
Do you remember your
21st birthday?
>> Anita: Not at all.
>> November 11, 1978.
>> Anita: I remember
nothing about it.
>> Marilu Henner: Nothing
about your 21st birthday?
>> Anita: Nothing.
>> Marilu Henner: Zero?
>> Anita: Zero.
>> George Noory: Should she?
>> Marilu Henner:
You don't remember.
She should.
It's in there.
It's definitely in there.
>> Anita: My mind works
nothing like yours [laughter].
>> Marilu Henner:
No but it does.
Well what do you -- okay, first
of all, November 11, 1978.
You don't remember what
day of the week it was?
Nothing?
>> Anita: Nothing.
>> Marilu Henner: [Inaudible].
>> Anita: Hmm-mm.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Marilu Henner: I'm
trying to get you prompted.
>> Anita: Okay.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
So do you remember
any of your birthdays?
>> Anita: Last birthday
I went gambling.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
So name -- but some other
like more years ago.
>> Anita: '78.
>> Marilu Henner: Do
you remember what day
of the week you went gambling?
You're saying last birthday?
Of last year?
Do you remember what day
of the week that was?
>> Anita: No.
I want to say it was a Thursday.
>> November 11, 2012?
>> Anita: No.
>> Marilu Henner:
[Laughter] Sorry [laughter].
>> George Noory: Well I just
had a birthday a few weeks ago.
I don't remember
what day that was.
>> Marilu Henner: Really?
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> George Noory: No I do.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
But do you remember
any birthday,
any dates, any birthday?
>> Anita: None.
Not a one.
>> Marilu Henner:
Okay but you --
it's definitely in
there so I'm going
to have to help you one back.
>> Anita: Okay.
>> Marilu Henner: So which one
would you like to bring back?
>> Anita: Let's bring
back the last one
since it was the
closest [laughter].
>> Marilu Henner:
[Inaudible] the easiest.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Marilu Henner: All right.
Here's something.
Here's an experiment for you.
When you think about what
you did yesterday morning,
you get this image of waking
up and doing something.
>> Anita: Hmm-mm.
Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
Do you remember -- scroll
through your morning.
Do you remember?
Do you have a sense of it?
Everybody in the audience
should try this as well.
Some people have to
close their eyes.
Some people have to stare thick.
Some people look up.
You try to remember what you
were doing yesterday morning
from the time you woke up.
Okay? And then you
try to remember --
how many people are in first
person when they're doing that?
Like, when you scroll through
are you back in your body
and kind of walking
through your day?
Seeing your alarm clock, waking
up, you know whatever you did.
>> Anita: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner:
Having your breakfast.
Most -- okay, how
many people are
in first person when
they do that?
Okay. Now -- and if
you can remember.
Now if you try to think back
to what you did last
New Year's Eve.
Last New Year's Eve.
>> George Noory:
Gosh that's tough.
>> Marilu Henner: What you
did last New Year's Eve.
I mean it's only six month ago.
But what -- do you kind
of remember what you
did last New Year's Eve?
When you have it
raise your hand.
When you have like what you
did last New Year's Eve.
>> George Noory: Anita
you were with me.
[Laughter] You forgot
[laughter].
>> Anita: I was just
looking for my husband here.
I was like I think we
watched Dick Clark on TV.
>> Marilu Henner: [Inaudible].
>> Anita: Except it
wasn't Dick Clark.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> George Noory: Ryan Seacrest.
>> Marilu Henner: Ryan Seacrest.
>> Anita: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay
so you were probably --
so when you think back --
you don't have to think
about the day of the week
but when you think back
are you in first person
or are you in third person?
Are you now not in
your body looking out?
You are more like
watching yourself.
>> George Noory:
Watching your body.
>> Marilu Henner: Okay.
This is a very interesting
thing that happens
with people and memories.
>> George Noory:
It's like a dream.
>> Marilu Henner: Because
people -- it's like Scrooge.
Remember Scrooge would look
through the door
and watch himself?
Okay, people with H-SAM always
go back into first person.
Through their eyes
and looking out.
And it really has a much
stronger impression of memory.
And only 30% of most
people do that.
You'll do it in first person
the day before or this morning
but all of a sudden it shifts
and it becomes third person.
So it becomes something
that's kind of out there
and it takes a long
time to remember.
You know? So it's very...
>> Anita: [Inaudible].
>> Marilu Henner: It's very
like, strong and different.
Okay so your birthday
last year was on a Sunday.
>> Anita: Oh.
>> Marilu Henner:
You were in Vegas.
So you remember that?
>> Anita: Blackhawk, actually.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh, Blackhawk.
Okay [laughter].
Yeah, I always think
of gambling as Vegas.
>> George Noory: [Laughter].
>> Marilu Henner: So
you were gambling.
And so do -- now that
I've told you what day
of the week it was do you
remember anything else
about that day?
>> Anita: You might
just be a bad volunteer
[inaudible] [laughter].
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> George Noory: Maybe a
little too much champagne.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Anita: I was going to
say I remember we drank
like two bottles of wine.
>> Marilu Henner: Uh-huh.
>> Anita: My girlfriend and I.
>> George Noory: See
it's coming back.
>> Marilu Henner:
See it's coming back.
It comes back.
So it was two bottles of wine.
>> Anita: Yeah and
I shouldn't say,
we smoked a lot of
cigarettes too.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Marilu Henner: This
is all an intervention
for you actually [laughter].
>> Anita: Yeah, yeah.
There you go.
I've changed all that.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> George Noory: How
much did you win?
>> Anita: I think I --
I can't remember that.
I didn't -- I came home like
a little bit up overall.
For being there over night.
>> George Noory: Don't want to
say because the husbands here.
>> Anita: [Laughter] No, no.
I don't care.
He doesn't care [laughter].
I think I pretty well broke
even by the end of the day.
Yeah. But my girlfriend
I remember,
she hit like a couple hundred
bucks right before we left.
>> George Noory: See how
all this is coming out?
>> Marilu Henner: It comes out.
Yeah.
>> Anita: Yes.
>> Marilu Henner: And
you start to think.
So now the next time
you go to Vegas or go
to Blackhawk it's called?
>> Anita: Yes.
>> Marilu Henner: All right.
Next time you go to Blackhawk
which of those things
will you do or not do?
>> Anita: Oh I'll
do them all again.
>> Marilu Henner:
You'll do them all again.
>> Anita: Oh yeah, I'll be back.
>> Marilu Henner: That's okay.
>> Anita: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner:
That's all right.
You had a great time,
you did it with gusto.
It was something that seared
into your brain as
a good experience.
So, you know, it's
something like, yeah remember
that good time we had
and everything and now,
you know, it was on a Sunday.
>> Anita: [Laughter]
[inaudible].
>> Marilu Henner: Does
that make sense now?
>> Anita: Well yeah actually.
Yeah.
>> George Noory: Now
how does she do this?
Because you obviously
can't be with here 24/7.
>> Marilu Henner: Right.
>> George Noory: How does she
do this to pull it out herself?
>> Marilu Henner:
Well what you do it --
what do you think
your primary track is?
>> Anita: Food.
>> Marilu Henner: Food.
Smell, food, taste.
Okay. So you're a taste person.
You'd probably take the test --
and we could put it on
your website or something.
You're a taste person.
So you could probably barcode --
I always use that
expression sort
of like cross connect
your greatest meals.
Like tell me about
a meal that you had
that you loved that
you remember.
>> Anita: Oh let's see.
Gosh. Can I say the restaurant?
>> George Noory: Oh sure.
>> Anita: We were at a
restaurant, Papadeux...
>> Marilu Henner: Uh-huh.
>> Anita: Down in south Denver
and gosh we started with oysters
and everybody had something
different and I had redfish
which I had never had before.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Anita: Yes.
And it was on dirty rice and
it was -- [laughter] yeah,
with wine sauce [laughter].
>> Marilu Henner:
Everybody has this track.
>> George Noory: [Laughter]
And the bill was this.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
[Laughter] No, food is
a huge track for people.
Because it is connected
to a strong sense.
>> Anita: Yeah.
>> Marilu Henner: So
there's like a taste thing.
So you have to like
taste your day.
You have to do something every
day to really taste something.
You know lick your life.
You know what I'm saying?
>> Anita: Yes.
>> Marilu Henner: You have
to taste something every day
that will make -- imprint
that day with a memory.
You know? And that'll be --
what did you eat when you were
on your birthday -- have on
your birthday with your friends?
>> Anita: Let's see,
we went to the buffet
and of course I had this
massive salad I remember.
And they had shrimp cocktail.
You know, all sort of
seafood things they had.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> Anita: I -- yeah
I remember those.
>> Marilu Henner:
You could probably...
>> Anita: And cookies on
the way out [laughter].
>> Marilu Henner: You could
probably take a calendar
of your life and remember
meals and that your --
those are your hard-edged
pieces in the jigsaw puzzle.
>> Anita: Isn't that wild?
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
And you could start
bringing back birthdays
and everything else.
And just those little
triggers will make you say,
"Wow, boy have I changed."
Or "Wow I'm still
that same girl."
And it's inspiring to say that
was a great experience I want
to remember that one so
that I kind of recreate it.
Or you say, "Oh that job
interview went so well
because I was on my game.
I ate this for breakfast, you
know, whatever it is for you.
You know, it's like why not
use the tools of your life?
It's your story.
And people always say, "What
about the bad memories?
What about that bad breakup?"
Well you're going to
remember those things anyway
because they are
tied to adrenaline.
But the more you examine them
-- it's like a scary movie.
You know, it loses its
impact after a while.
So the more you confront those
things instead of treating them
like they're the emotional
boogie men in the room,
the more you really examine
them and explore them.
The more power you have over
them rather than they are --
you know, taking your power
away and they are, you know,
they're like sucking
the life out of you.
You know making you feel bad.
>> George Noory: Let's
hear it for Anita.
[Applause] Thanks, Anita.
>> Marilu Henner: I
hope that was helpful.
>> Anita: [Inaudible].
>> Marilu Henner: Oh yeah, yeah.
But you'll see.
That 21st birthday's
coming back [laughter].
It definitely will.
>> Anita: [Inaudible]
[laughter].
>> George Noory: You know it's
amazing how you can draw this
out of people.
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory: When
initially she comes on,
she doesn't remember anything.
>> Marilu Henner: Right.
>> George Noory: Then she's
telling us what she had and...
>> Marilu Henner: To eat.
>> George Noory: ...what her
friend had and everything else.
It's there.
>> Marilu Henner: It's there.
>> George Noory: It's a
tape recorder isn't it?
>> Marilu Henner: It is.
It's recorded and it's there
and that's why I'm saying
with the figuring out your track
and your dominant sense it's
really understanding how you
receive them, how you retain
them, and how to retrieve them.
Because they are available to
you at any moment's notice.
>> George Noory: What is the
single biggest little trick
that we can do to
remember things?
>> Marilu Henner: I
think pay attention.
Pay attention to -- first of all
understand what works for you.
You know, it's -- it might
not be crossword puzzles
and Sudoku to record your life.
It might be a smell,
a taste, a sound.
I mean certainly music is
a huge trigger for people.
You know so somehow
play to your strength.
>> George Noory: Sure.
>> Marilu Henner: Play to your
dominant sense every single day.
Know that -- you know, that's
why I was saying to Anita;
do something -- identify
a taste every single day
and you're going to
remember that day better.
You know cross connect
that with something
that you're going through.
Just taste that experience.
I mean whether --
literally or figuratively.
So that's why you have
to do -- now you --
I mean I know you
have a great memory
and you see people all the
time and you're talking to --
but you're very plugged in.
You're always plugged in.
>> George Noory: You have to be.
>> Marilu Henner: Every
time I see you I feel
like we're picking up
exactly where we left off.
>> George Noory:
Yeah, you have to be.
>> Marilu Henner:
You have to be.
>> George Noory:
And I also learned
that when you meet people --
how many people meet someone,
they walk away and don't
remember their name?
>> Marilu Henner: Yeah.
>> George Noory:
And they me them.
>> Marilu Henner: Or nothing.
>> George Noory: Who was that?
>> Marilu Henner: Or
nothing about them.
>> George Noory: Or nothing.
>> Marilu Henner: it's
like they skim the surface.
The other day I was at
an opening of a hotel
and I saw a woman, I
said, "We've meet before."
And she said -- she mentioned
the place and I said,
"Oh my gosh that
was -- it was --
you know April the 6th of 2006.
It was a Thursday.
It was at -- you know,
shutters on the beach.
You know and we always like
naming all these things.
So now I could have just
walked past her at the party
and not had anything
to do with her.
And then what happened was now
we have a point of reference.
Now we have an experience
together.
Now next time I'll see here we
will have last week's experience
as well.
So you're constantly
layering information
which is what really separates
us from all other animals.
>> George Noory:
Sure does, sure does.
You have been an
absolute delight.
>> Marilu Henner: Oh thank you.
>> George Noory: You
always have been.
>> Marilu Henner:
Thanks so much.
>> George Noory: [Background
applause] Let's hear it
for Marilu Henner.
>> Marilu Henner:
[Applause] Whoa [laughter].
Thank you so much.
>> George Noory: Super.
[ Applause ]
>> Marilu Henner: So
great to see you guys.
>> George Noory: And
thank you for watching
"Beyond Belief" [applause].
>> Marilu Henner: Thank you.
[ Applause ]
[ Music ]